and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning kona over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly email where i'm sharing
actual website and marketing tips useful
podcasts free resources and much much
more each and every monday kick off your
week with a bang why not give it a try
over at business growth dot email
so joining me today i've got johan
abbotty johan's svp of marketing over at
mediafly he's also a trained chemist who
has turned a marketer johann welcome to
the show sir how's it going i'm good
going doing great thank you for having
me
no worries man so looking forward to
this one we're gonna be chatting all
things demand creation
versus demand
capture
something i always enjoy chatting about
um especially when we stream these
episodes live on linkedin because i know
there's many in b2b service based sas
based tech based industries that love
harping on about demand creation demand
generation all day long
and then when you start talking about
demand capture everyone seems to go
quiet why that is i don't know and
perhaps you'll prove me wrong perhaps
you'll say what i'm saying is nonsense
i'm excited either way to jump in so
first and foremost let's set the scene
johan what is the difference
between demand creation
and domain capture
i think i get started it's not my
analogy but i heard chris walker once uh
discuss the promotion of toothpaste
and okay he was saying before we started
using uh we started using or adding
sugar in our diet very regularly there
was no such a thing as toothpaste people
didn't brush your teeth very regularly
then it started
you had to make people aware of the
problem that they had with their teeth
running if they didn't clean them
and then you had to promote your
solution
for uh for that problem but without
educating the market
no one would have bought toothpaste
so
it's all about education
uh it's all about creating awareness
about the problem first and
letting people know how they can solve
the problem
going forward so
that's the main creation for you
gotcha gotcha so creating a rare
awareness around a problem
that you're offering your solution your
product can can fix or consult
correct
gotcha and what would you say is demand
capture
as a question
once once there is awareness once people
are looking for this
when they are looking for it when they
are showing their intent to uh to
purchase then you have to uh
get uh front and forward and uh get them
to want to buy from you
and that's demand capture and that's
google ad
social social media can allow you to do
that but then there is intent it's a
very different uh very different motion
there
yep yep
so talking about two different things
right we're talking about
creating
awareness
of some kind of problem some kind of
issue that you might fix with your
product or your solution over time
to build up that
demand for your service or we're talking
about actually capturing the demand when
there's someone already knows they've
got something they need help with they
need you they know they need your
offering they might not necessarily know
your brand
but then they're capturing that kind of
intent or that desire for for whatever
you whether you sell correct and you you
said something important is they have to
be aware of your brand are you going to
buy something are you going to buy from
a brand you have never heard of
it's very rare
um especially in the b2b space
so
the the
the awareness piece is not only
awareness about the problem sourness
about the solution that your brand offer
yeah
do you think that's like super do you
think that is really important in where
we are now time recording 2022 do you
think most b2b buyers need to be aware
of your organization or your brand
to actually have trust to
purchase your stuff
absolutely
how do you buy
think of it think of the way you buy
whether it's a recommendation from
someone you know
or whether you have seen and you know
this is uh i read a great book called
the method of persuasion
we have we have we have this way of
thinking and this way of
of acting that is beyond even our
control you know the the reptilian brain
is uh is a is a fabulous thing for a for
marketer when used
if correctly
if something is top of mind for you
you're gonna try to address it here and
there
um
so if the problem is top of mind and a
brand is top of mind
your first reflex is gonna go to that
brand
if a problem is top of mind i am talking
to sam and sam is i think you should
check this out
what are you going to do you're going to
go check out the recommendation that
that that was given to you so
brand is
is one of the main
the main the main challenge that all
marketers have you have to develop your
brand one way or the other
so
i'll give some scenarios in a minute
that i want to play devil's advocate on
but
which do you think is more important for
companies to focus on actually building
demand or capturing
it very much depends at which stage
you're in
if you are if you are on the top uh the
top dog in the space
you have cash to spend
well you can go ahead and educate the
market this is great if you are more of
the underdog and you have left
less resources available and less
resources it's less cash
less bodies to do the work
then i think that you have to be a more
opportunistic and you have to capture
the demand
whenever you can um it's shortest path
of resistance if you will building a
brand takes time takes extra resources
it takes money takes people
and even the right people a lot of money
might not be able the type of brand that
uh that you are looking for it's just
very very hard to do if there is a book
on this that
that
solves all this problem for all
marketers send it over to them
so so you're saying depending on the
stage of the organization if they're
quite early stage you think they should
focus on actually capturing demand to
capturing people that are already aware
that they have an issue and they might
be searching for kind of your service or
your
offering whereas if you're later stage
then does that mean if you're late at a
stage you just focus on creating demand
you ignore demand you have to be both
you have to do both and and
most good companies understand this
obviously and you because
because you know this is the funnel i i
don't like the funnel very much but it's
a good representation of
of uh
how marketing teams are
evaluated
but um
you have to be able to capture people
earlier early on in their buying cycle
and whenever possible when they are
lower than the funnel you have to be
able to get them as well your cell cycle
is going to be shorter if you catch them
when they are ready to buy obviously
if you are
one of the top players in the space
you will most likely be part of this of
this buying cycle
but if you are not well make sure you
are part of this evaluation
give your give your team a chance
the other part that is important is when
you do demand demand capture
um people are more supposedly more ready
to buy which means that when you send
these
leads or these prospects over to your
sales team your sales team is going to
see
better chance of them meeting their
quota
depending on your cell cycle than
someone that they have to educate and
nurture for a while
so it's not it's not just
demand or creating demand versus
capturing demand it's all of the sales
motion that is going to come and the
marketing motion that will come behind
what you are doing as well if you have
to do demand creation you have to do a
lot of education you have to dedicate
more resources your cell cycles are much
longer and you are not producing
as quickly funnel
for your pipeline
and all marketing teams now are moving
away from mqls versus you know sales
qualified
opportunity why you say oh i know
there's still plenty that still aren't
but but
do you do you want to get early
uh into the buying cycle so that you can
help and also influence obviously the
duration that they are going to take
or do you want to try to come in later
on and uh and basically differentiate uh
as
well as you can to convince them that
you are you should be part of that
of that uh of the buying process
different motion again it depends
but i've done it with with with smaller
companies
okay
i would focus on demand capture because
as a marketer you have to show
results very quickly
if you don't help create pipeline
quickly
people lose faith lose patience
if your vcs want to show color over
colder results then
go after them and capture
yeah yeah and that makes sense right i
mean
if you're if you're building up demand
if over time you're educating the
audience you're sharing with them the
problems you fix you're sharing them
useful information helpful tips insights
so every time you're in the back of
people's brains so when they eventually
need your offering they know you and
then if they do do say a google search
around your service even if they want to
compare a couple vendors you're probably
still perhaps their vendor of choice
because they've seen all of your stuff
whether that's on linkedin whether
that's youtube or wherever they're
marketing to and whether the audience
hangs out
so i get that um
and like you say it's an interesting
point if if you're just going after
capturing demand so perhaps you're doing
things like review websites like g2 and
whatever your industry relevant review
site is or google ads or seo so when
people search you're offering who don't
know your brand
then find your website maybe request a
demo or request a consult
and i suppose you lose that edge whilst
you can still capture the lead and you
can get the sales conversation going
um
it's it's probably i suppose a little
bit difficult for your sales team to
actually close the deal because they
haven't got that brand reputation so it
takes a bit more effort the sales
cycle's perhaps a little bit longer
because the the prospect isn't aware of
you
for sure for sure and and and
and they understand also the the the
mindset
the the
human um
element to this is
when you're helpful
you build trust and reciprocity
so
people are going to give you more slack
and are going to be what will trust you
more if you have be if you have been in
full uh at some point within their sales
cycle and if it starts at the beginning
they will share more information with
you they will give you more uh
more opportunities to win that deal that
deal going forward so
super important this this reciprocity
part is is super important and
and like i said i had an interview with
a potential sdr for our team yesterday
okay what do you think is the most
important thing uh as an sdr
what do i think
no i asked her i can interview what do
you think yes
i'll ask you if you agree or disagree
with me after i tell you that and she
was well i think i have to be confident
i have to offer uh
some uh some solutions she had good
answers but i was well the most
important thing is that then
you focus on them you listen to them
this is the first thing
this is the first element that you have
to uh that you have to uh to uh to
master it's all about them and what they
are focused on and what they care about
then you try to align this with what we
are offering but if your outlook is
i'm going to tell them my solution is
awesome i'm going to tell them how i can
solve problems for how great we are yeah
exactly how great we are if it's about
you it's not going to work out very very
well i told her it's very much like
like like a date
if you talk about yourself
the person in front of you is going yeah
i don't think this is a good match
focus on them care about them listen to
them actively listen to them and then
you get a shot
i don't know what do you think is the
most important thing
yeah i mean i've i've been an sdr so
years ago when we were building up this
company and another company i've i've
set appointments kind of for for myself
a sales team and yeah i i'd agree to a
certain extent i mean there's a few
factors outside your control i suppose
the things like making sure you've got
decent data
or leads or whatever you're going to
follow up on and then yeah like you say
not focusing on how great your company
is which is marketing in sales 101
focusing on what understanding
what your prospect actually cares about
so what are like the three
biggest bleeding net pain points that
your ideal customers care about fixing
so have conversations with the sales
leaders have conversations with the
marketing team what are the like two or
three top biggest problems that you fix
then in the first kind of 27 seconds of
the
cool after you've done like a permission
based opener then you can crack on and
say look these are the kind of three
main pain points we fix so these
issues that you ever see in your world
and like if the prospects like kicking
back saying they're not then probably
not really a warm prospect you only want
to focus on people that actually have
these kind of issues that you're going
to resolve and then you can
see if it's worth the conversation hand
it over to an ae
um
my two cents yeah i need like you said i
mean data is important there this is how
you have your team intend data have they
been on your website whether they go on
your website
then you can be more contextually
relevant in your in your discussion for
sure
cool we digress we digress right back
back no worries always good fun i like i
like talking sales um
so
so we talked about kind of the
difference between demand gender
difference between demand capture and
the fact that you believe kind of
companies depending on where they're at
perhaps if they're early stage should
look at demand capture if their later
stage should do
demand building demand creation as well
as capturing that demand that they've
built
so
let's perhaps
look at a couple scenarios johan let's
say we are a b2b start-up
um let's say we are in the tech space
we are let's do some kind of software
maybe we provide what sector should we
be in
we provide let's say finance b2b
software it can be crm it can be
whatever you want um
b2b based and
we need to
get some fuel for our fire we need to
get some leads for our sales team so
what are
some of the first few things that we
should do in your opinion to either
should we be going for some demand
creation channels or should we go for
some demand capture channels what would
be your kind of roadmap for marketing
leader for this organization are some of
the first
i would look at where is my audience
number one
trying to reach them there whenever i
can
um
the second thing that i would do is uh
look at take a look at google do some
seo search
with google and google ads
and see who is there who is present
on this uh
on this uh on this uh
subject on this uh in this in this space
and i would rather than looking at
keywords
i would look at brands
okay i would go after brands why because
people are always brand aware are
already brand aware
so
when when people are solution and brand
aware they're further down the funnel
right i should be able to capture demand
uh going after them now i have to
differentiate myself from from these
people
so an example would be
let's call you know company uh acme
financial giving you a software for your
solution
you look at acme financial competitors
like may financial
alternatives and uh you beat on these
keywords and you see the volume that
you're getting from this and
and within within a couple of weeks you
should be able to uh to see whether or
not you have enough volume
and if you are converting
uh on the page you are sending people to
that's what it was okay
okay
let's just break that down a little bit
the first point did you say who your
audience is and where they hang out
any tips for defining that
from your experience
um i do a lot so you have a lot of
podcasts
um that i would uh that would save
through and linkedin and if you are
again if you are small
yeah
go after some smaller podcast or an
influencer in one of these podcasts and
sponsor their show
i mean they're gonna do it for a few
hundred bucks
and uh you're gonna get not only some
awareness with the persona you're going
after okay but then you will leverage
word of mouth from these people
let them let them do the talking yeah
the great marketers get other people to
see how great they are because if i tell
you i'm great nobody is going to believe
me
plus i'm french so
will think we're great but um
if it's come if it comes from a third
party
then
you have oh right um some some real
validation there it just takes a little
longer it's just more long-winded play
are you saying like go on um industry
specific niche podcast let's look to
sponsor those yes if there was like a
small finance based one exactly after
that
and you can and you can do you can do
some some you're making some small bets
you're not spending tens of thousands of
dollars doing it it's a few hundred
bucks here and there
and um and they trust already that
person they're listening to that podcast
um and you can do the same with mailing
list too
that's nice yeah i've not really thought
about i don't think we've talked about
that much on the show so going after
niche little podcasts in in the sector
interesting okay any other ways that you
found useful to
define exactly who you want to target as
a ideal client
and not necessarily marketing to them
but any
intent
i leverage intent uh a lot so if you are
if you have uh if you have a service
that allows you to uh to get some intent
data then go after them you know one of
the analogies that i take with my team
all the time is
try to sell me diapers
good luck
my kids are are are out of diapers and
they have been for a few years now it
doesn't matter how good of a deal you
give me
i'm not gonna buy diapers so if you can
get intent data if you can do it right
and doing it right means you filter out
the noise
you know it's not because someone from a
company
went to uh to a web page with the
keywords you are tracking that they are
in uh
in market but if you can get first
second third party intent
um go after these companies
the signals should should indicate for
you that your team
should probably go after them
so work on that hopefully that makes
sense right first party intent they came
on your website second party intent is
g2
trust radios one of this uh uh in the
b2b in the b2b space obviously and third
party intent
you know the bombora of of the world and
uh zoom info uh okay abn platform that
sixth sense um yes it's with early stage
you might not have the means to get uh
get sixth sense
uh set up but
go after this try to try to go
medium to bottom funnel as much as
possible really all right
how is that typically what you'd provide
with your sales team like the sdr team
maybe to do outreach on email or cold
calling and things like that
correct and we try to you know one of my
dreams is no more call calling
um when you call them you have heard of
them and this is the omni-channel
approach so you are going after
so you are defining who is in market
based on intent
and you are prior to you prioritize this
this account because you know there is
some interest we know the personas and
the departments uh that are probably
interested in that who are looking into
it and we get our sdr team to reach out
to them with a sequence that is on the
channel so
social media email phone calls and on
the top of that our team will do digital
advertising to them targeted digital
advertising to them and the advantage of
this
um you know everyone hates cookies but
as a marketer you leverage cookies
someone comes on your website
now they are brand aware
now they have to be what is it that we
can do for you so your market retarget
to them um with uh some case studies
some uh some uh
some references that uh there are there
are tied to what you can do for them
specifically for them and hopefully they
want to talk to you
we're going off topic quite a bit but i
don't mind because i think this is quite
interesting i think this is also useful
for
people that want to scale organization
fast
um
so i was talking to someone the other
day about this actually um funny enough
i was talking about to them about seo
and the fact that they were
spending a ton of cash on the old
predictable revenue model so having
sdr's
drop because typically b2b tech
companies just love hiring sdr's they'll
spend crazy money on sales reps
um right at the top of the funnel to
generate those appointments feed them
through to account executives hey i get
that if it works well fair enough
and then when it comes to investing in
digital marketing they just seem kind of
that the budget goes from massive it's
absolutely tiny but
from your experience what should be the
split
between an outbound motion so hiring
sdrs because that can be quite expensive
right
as opposed to digital
so we're talking about things like going
after intent data where we're talking
about paid ads which we'll talk about in
a minute or seo what do you think should
be the split
what i tri i built that that mediafly so
um
i
we started the sdr team it was a back
and forth we had sdrs and we didn't have
ngr and we got rid of sdr and
last year it was well if we want to
scale you know
just relying on your website i mean you
built a website you know that very very
well but in the b2b world it's not like
we're selling potatoes
it's it's some of the solutions that
you're offering are complex solutions
um just relying on self-service
it's just
it doesn't make sense in my opinion
uh there is so much you can convey um
through videos and uh
guides and uh and uh checklist and and
so on
so
at some point you have to remember that
uh the sales motion is very much people
selling to people it's
h2h
when you are doing marketing
more often than not you are doing
one too many
and this message is not that
personalized not that optimized
so i very much see the sdr team
as the extension of your marketing team
and they are the ones who will do the
one to few one-to-one they are the ones
who will personalize um
the the messaging
that you have blasting
digitally to them ahead of time
so
doing in the b2b space in my opinion do
it doing strictly
uh digital without having an sdr is
probably a mistake
if you are selling a solution a point
solution that is super super targeted
with a very very defined value prop and
the cost is you know five bucks per per
user per month then you can get away
with it
what do you think the let's let's put
into perspective so what do you think is
because from my experience right you
have to have a reasonably high ticket
offering
whether that's sas a monthly
subscription or annual subscription
whatever the heck you offer
to actually justify hiring sdrs
what do you think what's your thought
there i.e
you need to be a 5k a month on your
offer otherwise sdr's are absolute waste
of time
um i think it's more ltv the lifetime
value of the accounts that uh that
you're getting
um so you have to do some math there
ultimately is what is your customer
acquisition cost and what is your
overall ltv
and
in a company
if you are able to increase pipeline
by five to ten percent
with an sdr
and
do the do do the math with your ltv
if your lifetime value for the customer
um increases year over year
then
you know
adk ot for an sdr is not gonna look very
very bad
i think that we are you have to play the
long game for this one it's not it's not
how much did they produce today
is how much
impact do you get do you get overall
when you add an sdr and the second hdr
and third is dr i can tell you we're
closing deals there are three figures uh
six figures sorry so six figures
well over 100k
thanks to sdr reaching out to people
with a personalized message
it doesn't matter which which marketer
you're talking to
if these people are able to do the exact
same thing
with fully digitally automated campaigns
i want them on my team tomorrow like
tomorrow
because that's a super power i don't
think it works out that way
so do you still think even if this is a
b2b perhaps
non-funded startup in the finance space
perhaps they've got let's say
not a massive budget 10k a month or so
for their marketing spend
do you still think sdrs are going to be
a
a go-to
i would probably get an sdr and if you
are you really if you are tight on cash
well
get abroad
outsource it
don't don't add don't add someone to
your uh
to your team or you have to pay all of
the benefits i mean i hate to say this
but ultimately
you you you can get it done you you you
test it you work out the kinks with
someone uh someone that is outside and
then you scale it when you see it work
this is good i like this um i think
you're one of the very few marketers
that we have on we've had a couple
but a lot of them are moving away from
the sdr role and
or trying to
say that outbound sales is kind of dead
in the water but i'm i'm with you i'm
all for multi-channel i'm all for
outbound as well as in as well as
inbound i mean ultimately if like you
say if you're testing something and it's
actually working and it's it's driving
real revenue over time after six months
eight months or twelve months a decent
test then
it makes sense to keep on as long as it
is so oh yeah it and
also also there is there is there is the
perception the only reason why i think
most people will tell you
sdrs don't work it's very hard
attribution i mean this i i use the a
word it's just terrible that i went in
there but
attribution is tough
and um i remember using this analogy
with uh with a with a few people before
where
i asked them
can you tell
during you know the courtship with uh
with your uh
with your um
uh
future spouse
can you tell spawn to one moment where
this was it that you knew that uh that
you would be together forever no it was
an interaction it took it took several
meetings it
took it took a lot of talk together it
took a lot of things to get to that
relationship to define that you both
wanted to be a with one another
it's the same thing with the interaction
with the with the with the prospect
there are several touch points that do
happen that make this relationship work
going short what is that point was it
the sdr sending an email
that was not open by the way most of
them are not open was it them leaving a
voicemail
then they went on your website and went
around and and you got them on the chat
with your qualified address how do you
define this so
the i think that this human to human
interaction is getting lost
more and more
if if i was selling
to an algorithm
then yeah just go ahead and
digitalize everything fine it makes
total sense but when
in the b2b space we're selling to human
beings who are selling to people who
have emotions who have needs and these
needs change from day to day if you
connect them with another human being
who is listening who is willing to uh to
uh to actually try to help them move
forward and i think it's important you
don't want to sell you want to help them
then it works out i don't know how to do
that with tech and
i love tech i love my tool
but i think the the sdrs are the best
way to do that the other reason why i
like sdr is at some point
you are getting so many parameters in
this equation and again i'm a chemist i
build supply chains so i see very much
this is the supply chain right you have
so many touch points and people can come
to you
at the very beginning of the uh of the
uh of their of the buying cycle
but
which um
how educated they are
matters in the interaction
how um
aware they are on the market does matter
uh how fast they can learn does matter
and are they from sales are there for
marketing are they from ops if you have
a solution that can be used by different
uh different departments and different
personas
the equation becomes very very very very
complex
i don't know how to create
personalized interactions or that many
personalized interactions and manage
this over time this is just too complex
of an equation for me to solve with tech
humans are still yeah or the super
or superhuman they can pivot they can
adapt based on the signals that they are
getting better than machines
yeah yeah i'll um i'll give you my quick
take on it and then we'll move on um to
the next point
so
this
it's kind of interesting because the way
i look at it is with um
demand creation
and likewise with demand capture i
believe there's only so many people that
you can do it too so let's give you a
case in point so
demand capture there's only so many
there's only like i think the stat is
there's only like five percent of people
in your total addressable market than
the solution aware yeah it's a three
three to five yeah something like that
something small so they'll be going to
review sites they'll be searching on
google for your product and offering
providing you at the top they'll click
on your website if your website can
convert you'll get the demo request
you'll get the consult request you'll
get the inbound lead fine um likewise
with demand creation whatever channels
your audience are on if that's podcast
if that's linkedin that's youtube
wherever you're building up your
educational market and over time you're
nurturing those people fine that's only
again a certain amount of people that
are actually residing on those channels
but outbound
as much as i love i mean we sell
websites in seo so i love inbound that's
what we do but as much as i love that
there's people that aren't going to be
doing those things that have never heard
of your brand
that
don't actually know they're in the
market for what you do so that's where i
believe outbound is effective because
you're basically saying look these are
the problems we solve and then some
people think
yeah that problem does resonate with me
starts a conversation goes through the
sales process so
yeah i think when when marketers say
like outbound is dying or cold calling
or cold emails just a way to sure far
away to piss people off yes it's going
to piss people off but
it's still going to generate it's still
going to generate revenue if you do it
right in the right way
um so i still think we're at a stage in
time where you can't just rule out
outbound
correct but i also think it's your your
um
your overall your overall philosophy has
to be uh
to be well defined when you do outbound
just like you're single you go into a
bar and you scream i'm jingle i'm ready
right now
come to me
i i mean maybe it's going to work for a
few
but
i don't think it's the best way to
present yourself again if you help if
you educate
these people will come to you when they
are ready
yeah yes vrs can do much better job than
any digital campaign i think in my
opinion you can put together is the way
to educate people in a bar just to buy a
round for everyone not
exactly
when you scream at 2 am i'm single after
you got everyone wrong that might work
that's one way of doing it sure cool man
um
so we we talked quite a bit that was
interesting in terms of kind of the
audience the capture went on a nice
topic about outbound
before that you were talking about
something
that piqued my interest you talked about
doing a search for
your offering so in our case we're
talking about helping bring to market
b2b finance software
as a startup and you said sir seeing
what results come up when you search for
the product or service and then going
after those brands so were you talking
about going after google adwords branded
search
yes or
okay
does that still work
uh
yeah as far as i can tell i'm still
getting i'm still getting leads every
day from uh from uh from this
it works so
it's
it's if the term is not too uh it's not
too vague
uh so try try the longer tail all the
bran again the brands uh the brand
searches so
brand x alternative brand x competitor
people are really more down the funnel
on this one and how do you define that
it works as volume
time on the time on time on your site
and
conversion so try it
look at the terms that are that are that
are popular
and if you and you can do it in google
ads well you can see
the number of the bounce rate you can
see the number of pages per session you
can see the time on site
you can see
your um your impression share you can
see how often you're on the top if these
numbers
for them have some of them you want low
for obviously the bounce rate but if if
if these numbers do look good it
probably means that you're targeting the
right to the right audience that's
interesting do you think that's one of
the first things that brands should do
this is the first
if you're a marketer this is the first
thing you should look at because this is
when it's going to get you
some some uh some funnel some some some
uh some opportunities for your uh four
years the fastest
yeah it will it's it's a lot harder to
be uh
even even for you sam i mean if if i see
your ad on linkedin i've never heard of
you before
the likelihood of me being willing to
buy right here now after seeing your
brand based on awareness is low now i'm
looking for good you know people can say
whatever they want
when you need something a lot of people
google
they just do
that's what happens oh yeah i'm not
believing
you're capturing demand it's not
disruptive it's it's contextually
relevant right here and there yeah well
i still think because i come across it
directly right i still run quite a lot
of the sales element for our company
even if you've built a lot of even if
you've built a lot of um brand affinity
with a prospect even if they've been
listening to your podcast they've been
following your linkedin people will
still compare agencies
it doesn't necessarily mean they're
gonna like there's a lot of marketers
that say oh you build a demand they're
100 gonna buy with you that's just not
true some will
but some are still going to compare you
with one two or three other vendors
they're going to go to g2 they're going
to go to google
they're going to like compare pricing
features spec
good stuff for sure but think of it
think of it that way
show me your company today that doesn't
beat on their own brand name
if they are not
they are wasting a ton
of time
of uh of uh of opportunities and it's
it's crazy it's really annoying it i
hate google for having to build on my
own brand yeah but
that's that's a reality do you ever get
pushback from competitors like when you
bid on other brand brands terms like
other brands names do you ever get like
because we have before we did it by
accident like we literally didn't
actually mean to fit on someone else's
company name it happened and some
company like wrote us an email saying
how dare you bid on our brand name you
need to take off within 24 hours of
filing a lawsuit and i was like i'm
pretty sure it's legal you can plus we
didn't actually do it on purpose yeah
um no
everyone does it
just look at google oh yeah brand name
and look at uh you know the insights on
who is coming up for your brand and you
get some pushback with them bidding more
on their own keyword and you know
ultimately i don't like it
but that's
that's that's the thing is when everyone
does it and when you see
your term leading to um
leading to uh leading to some pipeline
well you have to do more of this and
think of it that way also is
you're gonna build you're gonna bid on
your own on your own brand because
google put
will put ads
ahead
of um
search results straight our brains
our eyes are seeing this brand and the
next time that they are going on your
side they might go direct or they might
look for uh
you know this is the uh the brand search
well
i'll use mediafly
i'll use chili piper in and and the
attribution is even wrong on this one
they saw you through an ad
so they are typing your brand in the
browser and they are getting to your
website and it's it's uh
and i saw this transition since last
year by the way
interesting my traffic through paid
search
went down
my traffic through direct and organic
yeah
well because of the ads because of the
ads i know it's the ads it's not only
the ads but uh for sure and you can test
it very quickly i wonder if there's some
i wonder if there's some general stats
on the percentage of people that
like
build a build affinity build like a
a liking towards a brand so let's say a
tech sas company that they're needing
help with and then type that in on
google are just about to click the
google ad for that direct company but
then see like a competitor ad saying oh
have you considered us we're like three
times faster to install we're half the
price and we'll get you set up in like
two hours i wonder how many people then
flick onto that ad and then inquire on
both
is that it's your job as before you make
a decision to uh to uh to look around
and compare
interesting stuff right
cool um
so
those those were the first two things
what were some of the next steps
johan that you recommend we talked about
kind of doing a niche audience stuff
then we talked about doing branded ads
and what are some of the next steps
you'd recommend
abm
so go target the companies that are very
much like your delighted your delighted
customers
listen to the calls from your customers
what they like what they don't like and
uh
and uh use their terms and go after
people well like them
and um
and uh bill
there you have to build awareness
because most of them are in market but
then you have you have a proxy for them
hey i've talked to x who is just like
you in a similar space and we have done
a b and c for them
wanted no
more and
and tell them a story
through uh through abm
the challenge with abm is again
cash
obviously
but if you don't target
20 000 companies
if you have
sdr help
you can be pretty uh prescriptive
in how you approach these people
so quality over quantity there but go
after the one well the most delighted by
url by you offer and they're closest to
the ones who are dealing by the offer
and uh and you'll be able to scale some
okay um won't go into abm too much we've
got past episodes on account based
marketing so if you just search business
growth share account based marketing you
should be able to find some some gems
around that um
are there any more points that you think
initially or those your top four or five
yeah i would also go after um
the um
ocnc
old customers new companies
okay
you know they know you they have work
with you they are now in a new position
um and you have a few offerings for that
you know public signals you have user
gems so
these people are are most definitely
um
more aware
and
more willing
to um
work with that the other thing that uh
that you should do is
go after your personas so if you are
using uh
zoom info sales intel
uh slingtail
look at uh look at the uh promotions
look at new hires
whenever someone comes in
into a into a marketing department or a
sales department
they want to uh they want to put their
their print on this and they want to do
things the way the things should be done
they will use different tools and they
will update their tech stack and bring
in
uh new vendors to help them do their job
go after these people
yep yeah is that like uh do you
recommend doing that on an outbound
style
you can do both i mean i always
recommend omni channel at all time if
you do only outbound as i mean think of
it that way if i want to get in touch
with you and i only call you
might not work if you don't answer the
phone i call you sms
uh if i ping you on linkedin if i send
you an email left your voicemail and all
that stuff i have a higher chance of
so this is why i very much see the the
dsdr
the the inbound outbound is kind of
it's very fuzzy
there is no real
distinction in my mind now uh they are
both intertwined and work with one
another very much so especially for this
when you have a defined icp when you
have well-defined personas
sdr is is is gonna make you
a much better marketer they are my best
friends i love mhdrs
nice one man um old customers new
companies are like that any any others
that we should consider are those the
top few
um
well there are the top i mean
there are all the things that uh that do
work well but uh
some of them are probably longer winded
and uh and and more costly and harder to
put in place i mean what you want is you
want
big impact
and the lowest amount of uh of work
possible yeah that's why i always go
after after google i'll go after
after specific audiences like where is
your audience go after these people talk
to these people interact with these
people as much as you can
i like the list
i'm curious as to why you didn't add seo
or
review sites
seo is always always always part of this
um but seo so if you are a new company
startup new company in the space
it's going to take time it will you
don't have time when you have vc backing
or if you're a bootstrap they want to
see results today so
i'm a big seo fan
but
i also know that you know you have these
pillar pages and you have this you have
to build these clusters of of subjects
actually
if you want seo i would say do seo and
use the um marcus sheridan's uh approach
marcus sheridan they asked oh yeah
love that book
formidable the guy but it took time
but if you do this in parallel doing all
the other things that
we're talking about yeah go for it this
is this is this is definitely yeah that
will come on your resources right like
you say if you've got vcs or
sales teams wanting sales leads super
fast then exactly they don't have the
patience you need you need that nsu is
getting harder and harder
especially in saturday markets for sure
search engines are are are putting a
bigger bigger on us on the brand
uh
now than they ever were if someone has
been in the space for uh for a few years
um
you know there are a lot of domains that
are linking to them for these two this
type of searches it's gonna be hard to
crack that one it just will
review sites
review sites yes for sure i i work i
work with them i work with them a lot
um there are a few that uh that are
really good there is actually one that i
like a lot for b2b uh selling is called
the caspera
allows you to uh to compare
actually uh they they gather
all reviews from all websites and they
have these algorithms that basically ask
you what is it that you want to
accomplish
and then they match you
with uh with the with the solutions that
are best fit for you uh
it's really really well done
so um
and um and uh
it's it's as far as i know
it's not there is no incentives
by the brand
to uh to to get anything done like on g2
you're going to pay 25 bucks for
for uh for a for review or any of this
stuff so it's it's um i think it's a
good aggregator for anyone
looking at buying solutions
but
yes they are very much part of the
intent
playbook
that i have
uh that we work so we work with uh with
a few of them whenever someone goes on
one of the categories we're in
we want to know how fun they are going
on there how active they are and then we
unleash our sdrs and our digital
campaigns toward these people
i like it i have a love hate
relationship with review sites because
they rank so well on google man it's
frustrating
like the organic search results are
insane that's why they make so much cash
but the funny thing about review sites
is that they don't have to do much in
terms of content aggregation or
population because all the vendors that
sign up to the sites provide the content
it's insane
but it's the shortest path of resistance
brilliant i mean it's a great it's a
great great business model insane
business model and then vendors like us
will spend thousands of thousands a
month because we know they rank
exceptionally well we know they get
traffic and it's an easy way to get
sales ops yes yes
one of the best business models i know
of
er it is
and and like you said seo and this they
compete with one another they do how do
you break this
how do you break this uh
this um it's it's it's yeah the the the
prominence of these uh review sites i i
don't know how you do that especially if
you are uh if you are a new company it's
very yeah it's it's all well when it
comes to seo it's all in the long tail
going after those one niche specific
higher intent longer tail search terms
is the only way
because you're just not going to beat
the
beat the monsters cool man well look
we've we've gone we've gone on for some
time here it's really been really
interesting convo we've talked all all
things um what we'll have to do is get
you back because we talked we set quite
a good scenario there for uh
in our case a b2b finance software
startup
with their
demand capture motion so we have to get
you back on another time to talk about
the actual generation the demand
creation motion um perhaps in a couple
months time but as for now johann we'll
we'll end it there and i want to say
thanks very much for for coming on and
sharing your wisdom with us really
appreciate it man
thanks for having me it was a pleasure
no worries and with that please do tell
our audience more about how they can
learn from you how they connect can
connect with you and anything else you
want to drive our audience to uh connect
with me on the on linkedin this is the
best way to interact with me so johanna
badi
um
and uh if there is anything that uh that
i talked about you want to know more of
just
pick me dm me on linkedin and i'll be
happy to answer your questions
nice one dude and we'll put that link
over on the show episode notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
so with that honestly thanks very much
for everyone for tuning in as always if
you enjoyed the episode a quick rating
on your podcast channel your audio
channel is appreciated or if you do tune
in on youtube a quick subscribe i'd be
really thankful for and with that we
should catch you on the next episode for
more no bs actionable marketing tips to
grow your business and grow your revenue
cheers for tuning in